
Docker :

Docker is a containerization platform which helps us to provide process isolation.

Virtualisation:

This is a technology for runining multiple operating system on one single host operating system.

On the host os we install a software called hypervisor. This hypervisor allows us to install guest operating systems.  On the guest OS we can install the application that we require.
HW resources are shared between each operating system.

The disadvantage of virtualisation is the applications runnning in guest OS should pass through multiple layers in order to acces the hardware resources.



Containerisation:

In containersation we donot have any hypervisor software in its place we install a Docker engine.
On the Docker engine we can directly run the applications as individual containers. These container has to pass through less number of layers in order to access the hardware resources.
The Docker engine also effectively maintains  the distribution of hardware resources. ie., if a container requires more amount RAM, CPU, and some other container using less amount of RAM and CPU
Docker engine will automatically distribute more hardware resources to the container which requires.

Installing Docker on Windows:

1. Open https://docs.docker.com/install
2. Go to desktop editions
3. click on Docker for windows
4. Go to stable channel and click on get docker for windows (stable)
5. Install it.
	Note: Docker on windows activates an application called hyperV.  Once this application is activated it will not allow virtualisation software (vmware, oracle virtual box etc) to run.


Installing docker on Linux:

1. Open get.docker.com
2. copy the first 2 commands and paste in linux terminal.

	curl -fsSL get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
	sh get-docker.sh



Docker images:

A docker image contains the necessary binaries and libraries which are necessary for an application
A running instance of image called as containers

Docker architecture

This is the terminal where we execute docker commands

Docker Host:  This is the machine where docker is installed.

Docker Deamon : This is a background process of docker which is responcible for executing the docker commands

Docker Registry: this is cloud site of docker where all the docker images are present.
	This registries are two types :
	Public Registry : hub.docker.com
	Private Registry : Specific for our organisation


05-02-2018

Docker commands :

To pull docker images 
docker pull imagename

To see the list of docker images present in our docker host
docker images or 
docker images ls

To delete a docker image
docker rmi imagename

To start an image as a container
docker run imagename

Run command options:

-d runs the docker container as a deamon. i.e., it runs in detached mode in the background.
--name used for  giving a name for the docker container
-p used for port mapping
	Ex: 8080:80 external port of the docker host  8080 is mapped iwth internal port 80 of the container
-v used for attaching volumes to containers
-rm used to remove the containers on exit of the container.
-it used for opening an interactive terminal in the container where we can fire linux commands.
-p used for publishing the port numbers. When we donot do port mapping docker performs portmapping it will mapp the internal port of the container with a external port of the docker host.  this external port will be some number greater than 30000.
-e used to pass environment variables to the docker container.
-a usded for attaching the STDIN  and STDOUT to container.
--network used for attaching a specific network to the container.

Note : run command start the image as a container. If the image is already present in the docker host else it will pull the image from hub.docker.com and then start it as a container.

	To stop container:
docker stop containername/containerid

to remove a stopped container
docker rm containername/containerid

to remove a running container
docker rm -f containername/containerid

to restart a container
docker restart containername/containerid

to restart after 10 seconds
docker restart -t 10 containername/containerid

to get into a container which is already running 
docker exec -it containername/containerid bash

to get into a container which already has a shell opened in it
docker attach containername/containerid

to see the ports of the container
docker port containername/containerid

to see the list of all running container
docker container ls

to see the list of all containers (running and stopped)
docker ps -a

to inspect a container
docker inspect containername/containerid
The above command will show the complete info about the docker container in JSON file format.

to creat a new network
docker network create networkname

to find the list of all the docker networks
docker network ls

to find detailed info about a network
docker network inspect containername/containerid

to connect a container to network
docker network connect networkname/networkid containername/containerid

to disconnect a container from a network
docker network disconnect networkname/networkid containername/containerid

to display the logs of a container
docker logs containername/containerid

to display the last 100 logs of a container
docker logs -tail 100 containername/containerid

to find information about docker installation
docker --version
docker info

to push a docker image into docker hub
docer push imagename

to rename a local image
docker tag original-image-name new-iamge-name

to build an image from docker file
docker build -t imagename.
note . represents current working directory

scenario :

1. start nginx as a container, run it in detached mode and do port mapping between external post 8080 of the docker host and internal port 80 of the container.

	
	docker run -d --name webserver -p 8080:80 nginx

scenario :

2. start httpd as a container in detached mode and publish the port numbers

	docker run -P -d --name mywebserver httpd

to check the port number:

	docker container ls

scenario :

3. Start mysql as a container and create a some tables in it.

	docker run -d --name mydb -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD-intelliq mysql

docker exec -it mydb bash
In the container to login into mysql prompt
mysql -u root -p
enter password

In mysql prompt
show databases;
To switch into a database
use sys;

Create some table using the code from teh below page
https://justinsomnia.org/2009/04/the-emp-and-dept-tables-or-mysql/



To stop all the running containers:
docker stop $(docker ps -aq)

to remove all the stopped containers
docker rm $(docker ps -aq)

to remove all the containers (stopped and running)
docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)


05-02-2018

Scena0rio 4

Download ubuntu image and start it as a container

install some packages in it
Exit from the container and remove it
Start the container from the same image and we will find all the packages that we installed previously are lost.
Now start ubuntu as a container again, install some packages but save the container snapshot as an image.

docker run -it --name myubutu ubuntu
In the container
apt-get update
apt-get install -y git maven tree
exit
docker stop myubuntu
docker rm myubuntu



start the container again
docker run -it --myubuntu ubuntu
we will find the packages no longer installed
Install them again
apt-get update
apt-get install -y git maven tree
exit
save the container an image
dockercommit myubuntu git-tree-maven-ubuntu

a new image gets created which will contain all the previously installed softwares.  If we start it as a container we will find all the softwares 
docker run -it git-tree-maven-ubuntu

Step 1

Sign up for an account in hub.docker.com

To login into that account from docker host

docker login
Enter username and password

Customise a alpine linux image and save it as a snapshot. (image). Push it into docker hub.
docker run -it -name myalpine alpine

In the alpine linux box install some packages
apk update
apk add tree
exit

docker commit myalpine intelliqit/myalpine
to push this image into docker hub
docker push intelliqit/myalpine



Working on docker local registry

Instead of pushing the docker images into the public registry(hu.docker.com) we can create a private registry and send the docker images into it.  This local registry can be access only the team members.  To create a local registry we should first download a docker image called registry and start it as a container


Scenario 5 

Download alpine and push into local registry
docker pull alpine
docker run --name intelliq-registry -p 5000:5000 -d registry

To save any image into this local registry we shlould first tag it
docker tag alpine localhost:5000/alpine
To push
docker push localhost:5000/alpine



Linking of docker containers

Multiple docker containers can be linked with each other using the following 2 ways
1. using --link option
2. using docker networking 

Scenario _6

Create 2 busybox container c1 and c2. Link c2 with c1
once the containers are link we  shlould be able to ping between them.

docker run -it --name c1 busybox
come out of the c1 container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrl+q)
docker run -it --name c2 --link c1:c1-alias busybox 
In the c2 container
ping c1


docker inspect c2






07-02-2018:

Creating Dev environment with docker:

using the links concept we can connect multiple containers with each other.and create the architecture that is required for the development team.

Scenario - 7

create a mysql container and link with wordpress container. We should be able to create a sample wordpress website once this link is done.

1. start mysql as a container
	docker run -d --name intelliq-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=intelliq mysql

2. Start wordpress as a container and link with mysqldb container
	docker run -p 9999:80 --name intelliq-wordpress --link intelliq-mysql:mysql -d wordpress

3. launch any browser
	navigate to ip adress of dockerhost:9999

4. create a sample website.


Creating QA environment with docker:


Start a selenium hub conainer
Start ubuntu container with chrome installed and link with selenium hub container
start ubuntu container with firefox installed and link with selenium hub container.


1. Start a selenium hub conainer 
	docker run -P -d --name selenium-hub selenium/hub
2. Start ubuntu container with chrome installed and link with selenium hub container
	docker run -d -P --link selenium-hub:hub selenium/node-chrome-debug
3. Start ubuntu container with firefox installed and link with selenium hub container
	docker run -d -P --link selenium-hub:hub selenium/node-firefox-debug

or

scenario:

creating QA env with docker
start a selenium hub container and 2 node containers
one node will have firefox preinstalled on it and another will have chrome preinstalled on it.
link these 2 nodes with the selenium hub container

1. start selenium hub conainer
	docker run --name selenium-hub -d -p 4444:4444 selenium/hub

2. start firefox node container
	docker run --link selenium-hub:hub -d --name firefox -p 7777:5900 selenium/node-firefox-debug

3. start chrome node container
	docker run --link selenium-hub:hub -d --name chrome -p 6666:5900 selenium/node-chrome-debug

4. To see the gui of these containers
	download and install vnc viewer
	open vnc viewer
	ipaddress-of-dockerhost:6666
	ipaddress-of-dockerhosts:7777

5. Run the selenium testing program





Scenario :8

Creating CI-CD setup for implementing jenkins
1. Start a jenkins container
	docker run - 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 --name jenkinsserver -d jenkins

2. start a tomcat container and name it qa server.. link with jenkins server
	docker run --name qaserver --link jenkinsserver:jenkins -p 8888:8080 tomcat

3. start a tomcat container and name it prod server.. link with jenkins server
	server run --name prodserver --link jenkinserver:jenkins -p 9999:8080 tomcat


Date: 08-02-2018

Docker compose:
This is used for creating the docker microservices architecture. When we  want  to start multiple container and link them with each other we can either give docker adhoc commands i.e., individual commands for starting each container and for linking them or we can use docker compose.
Docker compose use s yml files that store infor about the docker microservices architecture.
Using this compose file it is easy to start or stop multiple containers.
Installation of docker compose.:
1.	Open  https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose
2.	2. Got linux section and copy the two commands


1.	Create Development environment with docker compose if link mysql container with wordpress container
Vim docker-compose.yml
Version: ‘3’
Services:
	Intelliq-mysql:
	Image: mysql
	Environment:
		MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: intelliq
	Intelliq-wordpress:
	Image:wordpress
	Ports:
-	8888:80

Create QA environment via docker compose:
Start selenium hub container and link it with firefox and chrome nodes.
Vim  docker-copose.yml
Version: ‘3”
Services:
	Selenium-hub:
Image: selenium/hub
Ports:
-	4444:4444
Firefox:
Image: selenium/node-firefox-debug
Links:
-	Selenium-hub
Chrome:
Image: selenium/node-chrome-debug
Links:
-	Selenium-hub
Implement CI-CI with docker compose

Create a Jenkins container
Start 2 tomcat containers
Call one as qa server and another one as prod server
Link qa server and prod server with Jenkins server
Step : vim docker -copose.yml
Go to insert mode
Version: ‘3’
Services:
  Jenkinsserver:
   Image: Jenkins
   Port :
-	 5555:8080
Qaserver:
Image: tomcat
Ports:
-	6666:8080
Links :
-	Jenkinsserver
Prodserver:
  Image: tomcat
  Ports:
-	7777:8080
Links:
-	Jenkinsserver



Date: 09-02-2018

Data Volumes: Whenever docker containers are destroyed the data created by those containers is also lost. To preserve the data we can use data volumes.

Data volumes are classified into 2 types.
1.Simple data volumes
2.Data volume containers

Simple Data volumes: create a folder called /volume and mount it into an Ubuntu container. In the container created some files in the volume mount point.
Remove the container and delete it.
Still we should be able to access the data

Steps:
1.Create a directlroy
	Mkdir /volume
2.Create a docker container and mount /volume on it
      Docker run –it –name myubuntu –v /volume Ubuntu
3.In the container go into volume folder
       cd volume
4.Create some files
	Touch file1 file2 file3
5.Exit from the container
	Exit

6.To find the locations where the mounted data is stored 
	docker inspect myubuntu 

In the JSON output that is generated from the above command search for mounts and copy the path where the mount point got created.
7.Stop and remove the container
	Docker stop myubuntu
	Docker rm myubuntu

8.	Change director to the location that we copied from json output and we will see all the files created by the container.

Data volume containers

If we want  to share the data volume of one container with other containers then we can use data volume containers.

1.	Create an empty directory
Mkdir /data
2.	Start and Ubuntu container and mount the above created directory as a volume
Docker run –it –name container1 –v /data Ubuntu
3.	In the container cd to data foler and create some files
Cd data
Touch file1 file2

4.	Come out of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrol+q)
5.	Create another Ubuntu container and this container should use the volume of container1
Docker run –it –name container2 –volumes-from container1 ubuntu

In container 2 cd to data foler
Create some files 
Cd dta
Touch file3 file4
6.	Come out of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrol+q)
7.	Create another Ubuntu container and this container should use the volume of container2
Docker run –it –name container3 –volumes-from container2 ubuntu

In container 3 cd to data foler
Create some files
Cd data
Touch file5 file6
8.	Come out of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrol+q)
9.	since all the containers have used the same data volume we can go into any container and we will find all the files present.


Docker Networking:

Docker uses the following networks:
1.	Bridge network
2.	Host only network
3.	Null or none network
4.	Overlay network

Bridge network is the default network of the containers running a sinle docker host.

Host only network is used when we want the container to communicate only with the docker hosts.

Null network is used to create an isolated container which cannot communicate with any other containers.

Overlay network is used when docker containers are running in a distributed environment. i.e., they are running on different docker hosts.

To find the list of docker networks.

Docker network ls

To create a new network
Docker network create networkname

To delete an existing network
Docker network rm networkname/networked

To statrt a container on a specific network 
Use –network option in the run command

To connect a running container to a network
Docker network connect networkname/networked  containername/container id

To disconnect a running container to a network
Docker network disconnect networkname/networked  containername/containerid

To find detailed info about any network
Docker inspect intworkname/networked


Create 2 docker networks intelliq1, intelliq2
Create 3 busybox containers c1, c2,c3
Start c1 and c2 on intelliq1 network
Start c3 on intelliq2 network

C1 and c2 should be able to ping to each other but bot c3, now attach c2 to intelliq2 network i.e., c2 is now present on both intelliq1 and intelliq2 networks.
So, c2 should be able to ping to both c1 and c3 but  c1 and c3 should not  ping to each other directly.

1.	Create 2 networks
Docker network create intelliq1
 Docker network create intelliq2

2.	Create a busy box container on intelliq1 network
Docker run –it –name c1 –network intelliq1 busybox

3.	Comeout of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrl+q)
4.	Docker inspect container1
From the above output capture the ipdddress of c1

5.	Create another busybox container on intelliq1 network 
Docker run –it –name c2 –network intelliq1 busybox

6.	In the c2 container
Ping ipaddress-of-c1 (it should ping)

7.	Comeout of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrl+q)

8.	Docker inspect container2
From the above output capture the ipdddress of c2

9.	Create another container on the intelliq2 network
Docker run –it  --name c3 –network intelliq1 busybox
In the container
Ping ipaddress-of-container1
Ping ipaddress -of container2
It should ot ping

10.	Comeout of the container without exit (ctrl+p, ctrl+q)
11.	Docker inspect container3
From the above output capture the ipaddress of c3

12.	Now attach container2 to intelliq2 network
Docker network connect intelliq2 container2
13.	Go into container2
Docker attach container2
Ping ipaddress of container1
Ping ipaddress of container3
It should ping





Date: 10-02-2018

Docker file : to create our own images
Docker images can be created using a file, which is called as docker file. I t uses special keywords which come from docker syntax

Important keywords used in docker file
	
FROM:
 Used to specify base image based on which we will create our docker image

MAINTAINER:
Used to represent author of docker file

CMD 

Execute default linux command whenever container is started from this image.
ENTRYPOINT :

Used to pass arguments to the CMD.


RUN:
This used for package management i.e, installing and uninstalling packages in the container.

Expose:

Used for port mapping i.e, it will map the external port for docker host with some intenal docker container

User:
This is used to specify with what user should login into the container


Volume: 
Used for attaching volumes to the docker container

ENV :
 used for passing the environment variable to the docker container.


Docker files can use the above keywords in a special file called as the docker file

Create a docker file based on busybox  image and execute the default command as date.
Vim docker file
FROM busybox
MAINTAINER intelliq
CMD [“date”]

Save and quit

To build and image above the docker file

Docker build –t busybox1 .   (t stands for tag for any name)  . represents current working directory)

Entrypoint:

Create a docker file based on Ubuntu based image and this should display the content of /etc/passwd file whenever the container is started.

Vim docker file
FROM Ubuntu
MAINTAINER intelliq
ENTRYPOINT [ “/bin/cat”]
CMD [“/ETC/PASSWD”]

Save and quit

To build an image from above docker build

Docker build –t ubuntu1 .

Create a docker file from Ubuntu based image  Update apt repository and install git

Vim docker file

FROM Ubuntu
MAINTAINER intelliq
RUN apt-get update
RUN apt-get install –y git

Save and quit
Build an image from the above docker file

Docker build –t Ubuntu  .

When we start this image as container… git preinstalled.
Docker run  --name myubuntu  –it ubuntu1

Cache busting:

Whenever we create images from docker file using the build commanddocker engine looks in the docker cache to check which instructions were executed in the previous builds and these instruction will not be executed again. Instead it will run only  the new instruction. The disadvantages of this process is we can endup having packages from an outdated repository.

Ex: in the previous docker docker file we have updated  yum repository and installed git.
Now if we add  some more run instruction for installing httpd, maven etc  it will install these packages from the yum repository that was updated in the previous build. To overcome this problem we can use cache busting using the && symbol in the run instructions.

Create a docker file for installing various packages using cache busting:

Vim docker file
FROM centos
MAINTAINER  intelliq
RUN yum update –y && yum install –y git  httpd  vsftpd  maven



Creat a docker file using Jenkins base image make the user of this container as root update apt repository install git and maven

Vim docker file
 
FROM Jenkins
MAINTAINER intelliq
USER root
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install –y git maven.
Save and quit

Build an image from the docker file

Docker build –t myjenkins  .

Start a container using that image
Docker run –d –name  j1  myjenkins

Go into the shell of that container we will see root is the user git and maven are already installed.
Docker exec  -it  j1 bash


Date: 14-02-2018



DOCKER SWARM :

This is the feature of docker using whichwe can perform container orchestration . In a scenario where we want to run hundreds of containers in a distributed network  we can use docker swarm.

Advantages of docker swarm:

1.	It can be used for launching multiple containers from a docker image. All these containers can be running the same service.
2.	Useful in performing healthchecks on containers.
3.	Used in scalling the number of containers either up or down.
4.	Can be used for performing  rolling updates on the services in this containes.

Setup of docker swarm:

Create a network of 3 linux vms either using  vagrant or aws cloud.
Make the first machine as manager and the other machines as worker 1 and worker2
Install docker on all these 3 machines.

To initialize docker swarm goto the manager machine enter
Docker swarm init –advertise-addr 10.10.10.11

The above command make the current node as manager and in the output of this command
It will show  the command for creating workers. Copy that command and paste it in the worker node.

To list machines which present in the docker swarm:
Docker node ls

To create a service in the docker swarm we can use docker swarm create command
Deploy the Nginx into docker swarm with 5 replicas and give it a name webserver.

Docker service create –name webserver –p 80:80 –replicas 5 nginx

To see the list of nodes on which this service is currently running.

Docker service ps webserver

To scale the service up or down

Docker service scale webserver=10

To remove a service from docker swarm

Docker sevice rm webserver

Scenario 2

Create 3 replicas of redis service in the docker swarm and name it myredis
Initially it should be working on redis 3.0.6 version.
Upgrade redis from 3.0.6 to 3.0.7 and this update operation get reflects on docker hosts.

Docker service create –name myredis –replicas 3 redis:3.0.6

To see the list of nodes on which this my redis is running:

Docker service ps myredis

To update to 3.0.7 version

Docker service update –image redis:3.0.7 myredis

Docker service ps myredis

To rollback myredis to the previous version:
Docker service update –rolback myredis



Create 3 replicas of mysql
Go into the shell of mysql and create some tables

Docker service create –name mydb –replicas 3 –e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=intelliq mysql





16-02-2018

To remove a node from the swarm the command is
Docker swarm leave


For a manager to leave the swarm:
Docker swarm leave --force


NAGIOS:

Nagios is the server and network monitoring tool. Using nagious we can find the status of CPU utilization, RAM Utilization etc. of servers present in a network.

Installing nagios

Create 2 AWS  Ubuntu instances, with the security grougp HTTP, CUSTOM TCP, SSH, ALL ICMP V4, 
Apt-get update
Apt-get updrage
Apt-get install nagios3
To open Nagios in browser
Ec2servername/nagios3

Enter the username as nagiosadmin and password as as assigned.

To add remote services/servers to Nagios we should edit the following files.

Vi /etc/nagios3/Nagios.cfg

Make 

Check_external_commands=1

Vi /etc/group
Go to Nagios line and add www-data

sudo chmod g+w /var/lib/nagios3/rw
Sudo chmod g+w /var/lib/nagios3

Sudo service apache2 restart
Sudo service nagios3 restart


Configuring hosts:

External servers should be added to Nagios configuration file :

Cd /etc/nagios3/conf.d

Create a new file
Vi newhost.cfg
   Define host {
Host_name ec2.hostname
Alias store
Address “ip address of ec2 instance”
Max_check_attempts 3
Check_period 2487
Check_command check-host-alive
Contacts root
Notification_interval 60
Notification_period 2487

To start services
Define service{
	Use generic-service
	Host_name “ec2 IP address”
	Service_description    HTTP
	Check_command check_http
	}

}

:wq




Date: 22-02-2018


Creating setup for jenkins CI-CD :

1. create a jenkins container
2. create  2 tomcat containers and link with jenkins container

creating jenkins container:
docker run-p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 -d --name jenkinsserver jenkins

creating qa server with tomcat container
docker run --name qaserver --link jenkinsserver:jenkins -d -p 8888:8080  tomcat

creating prod server with tomcat container
docker run --name prodserver --link jenkinsserver:jenkins -d -p 9999:8080 tomcat


docker compose:

This is a tool of docker which is used for executing multiple docker services from one point of controll.  Using docker compose we can create a network of docker containers and link them with each other.

installing docker compose:

1. open 
	: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose

2.  sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.19.0/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose

3. sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose

4. to check if docker compose is installed or not 
     docker-compose --version



create a docker compose file for starting mysql and wordpress containers:
vim docker-compose.yml

version: '3'

services:

 intelliqmysql:
  image: mysql
  environment:
   MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: intelliq

 intelliqwordpress:
  image: wordpress
  ports:
   - 6767:80


to start all the service in the above yml file 
docker-compose up -d

to stop the services
docker-compose stop


creating testing environment with selenium hub servers with 2 node servers and link them with each other

vim docker-compose.yml

version: '3'
services:

 selenium-hub:
  image: selenium/hub
  ports:
   - 4444:4444

 firefox:
  image: selenium/node-firefox-debug
  links:
   - selenium-hub

 chrome:
  image: selenium/node-chrome-debug
  links:
   - selenium-hub


create a docker copose file for starting 3 containers
1. jenkins
2. tomcat

we should be able implement ci-cd on these containers

vim docker-compose.yml

version: '3'
services:
 jenkinsserver:
  image: jenkins
  ports:
   - 8888:8080
  qaserver:
   image: tomcat
   ports:
    - 6767:8080
   links:
    - jenkinsserver
  prodserver:
   image: tomcat
   ports:
    - 7787:8080
   links:
    - jenkinsserver

docker-compose up

Date: 23-02-2018

Scenario: 

start ubuntu as a container and install git in it
exit from the container, and remove the ubuntu container
start ubuntu again and we will see git is not present.

Now install igt again
and save this image as a snapshot
when we start a container from this snapshot we should be able to see git present in ti.

1. start ubuntu as a container
	docker run --name myubuntu -it ubuntu
2. install git in it
 	apt-get install -y git

3. exit from the container and stop and reove the container 
   exit
   docker stop myubuntu
   docke rm myubuntu

4. start ubuntu again
	docker run --name myubuntu -it ubuntu
5. git will not be present
   git --version
6. install git again
	apt-get update
	apt-get install  -y git
	exit
7. save this as a new image
	docker commit myubuntu git-ubuntu
8. start a container from the above created image
	doccker run --name ubuntu -it git-ubuntu
9. check for git
	git --version (git will be present)


Create an ubuntu customised image and push into docker hub

1. start ubuntu container
	docker run --name myubuntu -it ubunut
2. In the container install some softwares
	apt-get install git
	apt-get install maven
	exit
3. save the container as an image
	docker commit myubuntu intelliq/ubuntu
4. Open hub.docker .com --> signup for a free account
5. docker login
	 enter username and password of the dcoker account
7. docker push intelliqit/ubuntu

hub.docker.com is the public registry of docker. Images pushed into this public registry will be available  for everyone.  To create a private registry which can be access only from our organisation we should use docker image called registry


Create a docker local registry and push alpine iage into it

1. start docker registry
	docker run -p 5000:5000 --name intelliqregistry registry
	
Note: registry is an image available in docke hub.  Wehn we start this image as a container it will work as a local registry

2. pull alpine linux
	docker pull alpine

3. push an image into local registry we should first tag it

	 docker tag alpine  localhost:5000/alpine

4. docker push localhost:5000/alpine 
 













26-02-2018

Data volumes:

Docker containers are temporary in nature. Whenever a container is removed all the data stored in container will be lost. if we want to save the data separate from the container we can use a concept called volumes. these volumes can be mounted on the docker containers and even after removing the container we will see that data stored in volume will remained.

Data volumes are of 2 types:

simple data volume: Simple data volumes can be used only by one container. It is not possible to share this volume with other containers.
Data volume container:	 Data volume containers on the other hand can be shared between multiple containers.

Simple data voluems:  Creat a empty foler called /data

statrt an ubuntu container and mount the /data directory into this container. in the container go into this mounted directory and create some files,  exit from the container, remove the container. we should still find the files that we created in the mounted volume.	
 
1. creating empty dir
 	mkdir /data
2. Start ubuntu container and mount the above folder as volume
	docker run -it --name myubuntu -v /data ubuntu
3. In the myubuntu container
	cd data
	create some files 
	touch file1 file2 file3
4. Exit from the container
	exit
5. To find the location where the mounted files are stored 
	docker inspect myubuntu
	in the    JSON output search for MOUNTS and copy the source path . This is the physical location on the docker host where the files are actually stored.

6. Remove the container
	docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)
7. change dir to the location that we copied from source in JSON output.  We will find all the files created by the container even though the container is deleted.



Docker container volumes: The volume used by one container can be shared with other containers using --voumes-from

create 3 ubuntu containers c1,c2 and c3
mount /data as a volume in the c1 container
in this container /data folder create some files
exit from the container
share this volume with another ubuntu container called c2
and share the volume used by c2 with another container called c3


1. start ubuntu as container and mount a volume 
	docker run -it --name c1 -v /data ubuntu
2. In the c1 container
	cd data
	touch file1 file2
	exit
3. start another ubuntu container c2 and it should use the data volume of c1
	docker run --name c2 -it --volumes-from c1 ubuntu
4. In the c2 container
	cd data
	touch file3 file4
	exit
5. Start another ubuntu container c3 and it should use the data volume of c2
	docker run --name c3 -it --volumes-from c2 ubuntu
6.In the c3 container
	cd data
	touch file5 file6
	exit
7. Remove all the containers and still we will have the files 
	docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)


Docker networking:


Docker uses the following 4 types of networks for container to communicate with each other.
1. Bridge network
2. Host only network
3. null network
4. overlay network

Bridge network is used between containers running on the same docker host.
Host only network is used when we want a container to communicate only with the host machine and not with any other docker containers.
Null network is used when we want to created isolated container which does not communicate with other container or with the docker host.

Overlay network is used when we have a docker containers running on multiple docker hosts in a  distributed environment. 

To create a docker network
	docker network create networkname
to remove a network
	docker network rm networkname/networkid
to connect a container to network
	docker network connect networkname/networkid container name/containerid
to disconnect container  from a network
	docker network disconnect networkname/networkid container name/containerid
to find the list of networks available
	docker network ls
to find detailed ifo about a network
	docker network inspect networkname/networkid

Create 2 docker networks intelliq1 and intelliq2
create 3 busy box containers c1 c2 c3
c1, c2 should run on intelliq1 network
c3 should run on intelliq2 network

conainers present in same network should be able ping each other and containers present in the different network should not ping.
now attach attach c2 to intelliq2 network. Because c2 present in both intelliq1 and intelliq2 networks it should ping both c1 and c3


To find detailed info about a network
	docker network inspect networkname/networkid
1. create 2 networkds
	docker network create intelliq1
	docker network create intelliq2
2. To see the list of networks created
	docker networks ls
3. start two busybox containers on intelliq1 network
	docker run -it --name c1 --network intelliq1 busybox
	come out of container without exit (ctrl+p), ctrl+q)
	Find the ipd address of c1
	docker inspect c1
	docker run -it --name c2 --network intelliq1 busybox
	in container2
	ping ipaddress of container1 (it should ping)

4. come out of container without exit (ctrl+p ctrl+q)
5. start another busybox container but this tie on intelliq2 network
	docker run -it --name c3 --netork intelliq2 busybox
	
	in container3
	ping ipaddress of container1
	ping ipaddress of container2(it should nt ping in the above two cases)

6. connect container2 to intelliq2 network also
	docker network connect intelliq2 c2
7. go into container2
	docker attach container2
	ping ipaddress of c1
	ping ipaddress of c3 (it should ping in both the above cases as c2 is now present in both intelliq1 andintelliq2 networks)


27-02-2018


docker swarm:

this is the feature of docker using which we can perform  container archestration.
In a scenario where we want to run hundreds of containers on multiple docker hosts we can use docker swarm.

Advantages of swarm:

1. useful in launching fixed number of containers for a particular docker image.
2. Can be used to perform health checks on containers.
3. used in containers scaling up or down.
4. useful for perform rolling update on containers.

 setup of docker swarm:

1. Create 3 ubuntu machines and install docker on all of them. 1st machine will work as a manager and remaining machines called as workers. manager will distribute the load between the worker machines.

To initiate the docker swarm... go to the manager machine ->  docker swarm init --advertise-addr 10.10.11.11 (manager node)

to add workers to the docker swarm copy the command that is generated as output of the above command and execute in the worker nodes.

To see the list of manager and workers currently present in the swarm:
docker node ls

creating services in the swarm:

1. Create an Ngnix service and create 5 replicas of Nginx.

in manager node execute this command

docker service create --replicas 5 -p 80:80 --name webserver nginx

to see the list of container on which the service is running:
docker service ps webserver

To scale the number of containers to the service either up or down:
docker service scale webserver=8
	
to remove a service from the swarm:
docker service rm webserver

create 3 replicas of redis 3.0.6 and name it mydb
docker service create --name mydb --replicas 3 redis:3.0.6

to upgrade myredis from 3.0.6 to  3.0.7 :

docker service update --image redis:3.0.7 mydb

to roll back of previous version of redis:
docker service update --rollback mydb

the manager can remove a worker node from the docker swarm using this commad:
docker node update --availability drain worker1

for the manager to make the worker rejoin:
docker node update --availability active worker1

for a worker to leave a swarm
go to the worker node --> docker swarm leave

for the manager to leave the swarm

go to the manager node : docker swarm leave --force




DOCKER:

Docker is a containerization platform which is used for performing process isolation.

virtualisation:

In this process we have a Host Operating System installed on a server on the Host Operating System we install a software called hypervisor.  On the hypervisor we can install our guest OS and on these Guest OS we can install our required applications.

The problem in Virtualisation is it has to pass through these many layers to access the harware resources.

Containerisation:

In this process we have host OS installed on the physical server.  On the Host OS we install a thin linux kernel called as Docker Engine. On the docker engine we can spin any number of processes or applications without worrying about the underlining OS.

The Docker engine during run time can allocated memory and CPU to the docker containers based on their requirement. Since containers are nothing but individual process they consume very less amount of hardware resources. Creating and destroying docker containers can be performed in a matter of seconds.

Installing Docker on windows:

1. Open https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/
2. Go to stable release and download and install
3. To execute docker commands
	open power shell
	run docker commands
Note: docker on windows activates an application called hyper-v.  once this application is activated it will deactivate all other virtualisation softwares.


Installing Docker on Linux:

1. Open get.docke.com
2. copy the first 2 commands and paste them in a linux machine
	curl -fsSL get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
	sh get-docker.sh


 





python application:

https://github.com/javahometech/python-app


R@ma@1943





















 

















































docker exec
  








































